# March 14, 2022

My original plan had been to take this week off to visit my parents but the
evening before I was scheduled to pick up the rental car I was made aware of a
mandatory group meeting the following Friday.  The timing was not good since I
had to make a decision post-haste, so I canceled the car. Even with subsequent
clarification the trip was no longer viable - my up to 14 day rental was to have
been $750 and the new price for 7 days was $1500. From what I can tell looking
at other potential dates, that's not likely to change in the forseeable future,
either (I checked dates in April and May and the prices seem rather high.)  So
I'm looking at alternatives for that.

In the meantime, I'll just keep working from home (rather than working from
remote locations.)

I started poking at the Google Drive API a bit today.  My first concern is to
make sure there is an interface for watching changes (there is).  They have
their own authentication mechanism as well, though everyone seems to use some
variation on OAUTH at this point, so I don't expect to struggle too much about
this.

One thing I have been considering is if I should be thinking about doing some of
this in Python, rather than C#.  For the moment, I'm not going to head down that
path, but it raises the question of "how do I envision cross-language support
working with this system?"  It's not vital to answer that _now_ but it is
something to consider.  Not useful from a research perspective, but useful from
a deployment perspective, which is how I can get the data needed to drive my
research findings.
