# March 22, 2022

Building on the work from last week, let's review the categories that I
proposed:

* Storage

* Communcations

* Tools

These are _very_ broad categories.

## Storage

The rational for storage should be obvious:
the purpose of this research is to explore collecting information to _improve_
finding of digital objects and in general, digital objects live in storage.  Of
course, the story isn't so simple because there is often not clear
compartmentalization.  For example, digital objects can be attached to an
e-mail, in which case they are associated with communications tools.

There seem to be basically three big buckets for storage:

* Physical/Local.  So this would be data on SSDs, HDDs, Optical, Tape, Flash
  (SD, CF, USB, etc.) and more exotic media (e.g., DNA storage).

* Network.  This would be related to material accessed via NFS, AFS, or CIFS
  (for example).  There is _some_ overlap with "Cloud" storage but "Cloud"
  storage has a somewhat different model so I'm going to split it out at this
  point.  I'd also include things like S3 in this category.

* Cloud.  This would be things like Dropbox, OneDrive, G-Drive, Adobe Cloud
  Storage, iCloud, etc.  These are "services" that are similar to the Network
  genre, but usually work by downloading content to local storage (**NB: I need
  to verify this is how G-Drive works. If not, it seems to be more "Network"
  though maybe the distinguishing characteristic is that these use HTTP(S) web
  protocols.**)  Does WebDAV fall into this category or the Network category?

  **Aside:** maybe I should try to build a list of features and cluster these
  things to see what logically makes sense when compacting them into groups.

## Communications

I tend to think of there being several primary categories here:

* E-mail.  These are tools that manage creating, sending, receiving, sorting,
  sifting, etc. electronic communications (messages) in the form of e-mails.

* Collaboration.  These are tools that are primarily for interactive
  communications and likely include text-like messaging services (ICQ, Text,
  iMessage, Trillium, Messenger, Whatsapp, Viber, Telegram, Signal, AOL IM,
  Yahoo Messenger, Google Hangouts) and more threaded/channeled group
  communications applications (Slack, Discord, Teams).  These may have the
  ability to send/receive files but typically tend to lack much organizational
  structure for digital objects themselves.

* Calendaring.  These are tools related to managing interpersonal events,
  whether it is a doctor's visit, a meeting with colleagues, a conference, etc.
  Humans use calendar applications

* Task Management.  These are "to-do" lists, typically for actions or activities
  that require specific follow-up

## Tools


* Storage: local disk, Dropbox, Google Drive.  Dropbox (and OneDrive, Sync, Box,
  etc.) have some level of overlap with local disk.  Google Drive does not,
  being more like CIFS/NFS.

* Communications/Collaboration: I would put things like "e-mail programs" and
  "chat applications" in this bucket.  So this would include GMail and Outlook
  (for example).  It would also include Slack, Teams, and Discord.

* Tools: This seems to be more the "catchall" category for my own organizational
  scheme.  This would include something to capture web browser activity, such as
  capturing DNS lookup activity as well as network connections (possibly
  allowing us to put the two things together.)  Another example of this might be
  Spotify, so I can know what music you are listening to at the time (though I
  don't _use_ Spotify myself.  I do have a license for Amazon Music, and that
  could be a nice connection to big data...)  Calendar applications might also
  fall into this category.
