# March 31, 2022

The _use_ to which I am putting the data is what's interesting, not the data
itself.

Logging and Provenance.  The purpose of provenance is to track causality.  If
you had the omnipotent provenance system, you could extract all the data I
wanted from that.  The data I'm collecting doesn't need to disambiguate from
these things.

Logs are a fine source of data for what I'm doing but not all of these sources
capture data produce logs.  What I am doing with it.

Those things don't exist, so I'm picking and choosing.

It's _not_ the data that matters, it is what I _do_ with it.

"Using big data to find big data..."

Really just the story.  Just a position pages.

"Specifying ourselves out of a job" (Margo working).

Logging is orthogonal.  Logging is a _mechanism_ about how we collect the data.
I'm not solving that problem.  I'm solving the problem of _what_ data do I need?
How do I filter it, how do I rationalize it, how do I correlate it?

(Surbhi)  Use something that starts provenance information.  People already have
_so many_ blobs of data.  Some linkage, whatever property we're taking.  The
"link" there.  Also need to be able to deal with existing.

(Sasha) Search is a big term. Tony’s idea enables specific kinds of search. I
also agree that the types of context-based searches that it will enable are
enough of a “killer app”.

I like the idea of focusing on API and enabling others
to find more types of context-based searches. Enabling something new is a huge
contribution.
