# March 29, 2022

Look at what is there beyond provenance.

Collecting this data to find various events.

Work that is being positioned as provenance gets pushback as "this is just
monitoring."

If I can look at an API (or two or something) and think "if all I have is this
work that's been done from monitoring and provenance perspectives, this is what
I could do, this is what I could express, this is how I'll deal with the data
deluge.  Can I capture, store, and use this data for what I'm claiming?"

Identify what I cannot do. Differentiate it from monitoring and provenance.

For example, compression/filtering that works with Provenance or monitoring
would remove information that is useful for other purposes (e.g., finding).

Needs to be a concrete case to ensure the "this is monitoring/provenance" is not
a reason for rejection of any papers I write.

Find something missing in the existing techniques (monitoring/provenance).  Can
identify things that will need to be built.  Systems supporting activity context
are _new_ and not just "provenance++" and then "here is an example that is
missing from existing systems."

Potential areas: Expressiveness, granularity, amount of data.  (Perhaps
flexibility?)  Then this gives rise to the "how to handle this much data."
These existing systems filter/reduce/compress that data.  "Here is the
information that will get lost if I do that, this is what I need to be able to
support this ability to associate an activity context with something I want to
find."

May 10-12 gone to Michigan.  I'm thinking around May 5-20. Ada has a conflict
May 6 weekend as well (friend visiting).  So I'll have some quiet time.

