# March 17, 2022

It's been a couple of days since I captured what I have been doing.

Bottom line: not much progress on the Google API front.  Dropbox has this
amazing mechanism for obtaining feedback when things change.  Google essentially
requires setting up a pub/sub service. This requires an additional layer of
stuff - a server that can process inbound connections from Google.

This is _not_ an uncommon model, but it is one that looks like yet another "good
sized chunk of work" that I don't want to invest in because I don't see that it
forwards research goals.  This _would_ be a useful addition to making the tools
more useful since this model seems to be fairly popular.

During the meeting today I pointed to other APIs I have been looking at,
including Discord and Spotify. Margo's observation is that there are only three
values: 1, 2, and infinity.  The point here is that it makes sense to have _one_
local storage component, _one_ cloud storage component, and then _one_
application component.  I am concerned this won't be enough to gain traction,
but it seems to be a reasonable place to start.  Looking at multiple APIs still
makes sense because I can better understand what the pieces needed to support
APIs beyond those I choose to do.

Hence, this pub/sub model ("web hook") that seems to be fairly common.  I need
to figure that out a bit more before moving on.

For a third candidate, I think something not typically considered storage makes
sense.  For example, Slack or Discord could be good options, since they
represent ways of both sharing data but also collaboration tools.  I am
concerned that lumping "all applications" together is an error.  Vianna's work
focused on web activity.

One point that was raised during the discussion is that if I don't want to build
something into the web browser, I can always monitor network activity.  At the
time I thought that sounded like a different sort of challenge (eBPF sounded
like a good idea but there's a "fire hose" challenge associated with it that I'd
rather not tackle at the moment.)  Swati suggested that I could look at the
connection data; I can certainly do that, but I won't be able to know what
website was being accessed since all I will have is the IP address.  MOST web
traffic is now sent over SSL and _not_ being in the browser itself means I won't
be able to know which website is being accessed.

Having said that, I _do_ think it might be possible to capture information via
DNS, which is normally _not_ encrypted and can be configured to go through a
local proxy in any case (sorry "caching dns server").  So, that could be an
interesting alternative approach to the problem.

I _do_ think that if I want to break things down into distinct categories, I
would be better off putting "storage" things into the same bucket:

* Storage: local disk, Dropbox, Google Drive.  Dropbox (and OneDrive, Sync, Box,
  etc.) have some level of overlap with local disk.  Google Drive does not,
  being more like CIFS/NFS.

* Communications/Collaboration: I would put things like "e-mail programs" and
  "chat applications" in this bucket.  So this would include GMail and Outlook
  (for example).  It would also include Slack, Teams, and Discord.

* Tools: This seems to be more the "catchall" category for my own organizational
  scheme.  This would include something to capture web browser activity, such as
  capturing DNS lookup activity as well as network connections (possibly
  allowing us to put the two things together.)  Another example of this might be
  Spotify, so I can know what music you are listening to at the time (though I
  don't _use_ Spotify myself.  I do have a license for Amazon Music, and that
  could be a nice connection to big data...)  Calendar applications might also
  fall into this category.

While I've been encouraged to select _one_ representative of each, I suspect
having two is going to make for a much richer artifact as well as greater
insight into whether or not the Indaleko architecture really does work.  For
example, in this grouping I already have NTFS and Dropbox for storage.
Communications, I am tempted to pick one E-mail (Outlook?) and one chat
application (Discord or Slack).  Then for tools, how about capturing DNS
activity and web connections?  This could be quite simple, just capturing basic
information, such as the process, dns query, and dns response for (select)
applications on the system and connection information: process, IP address,
protocol.  This "feels" more systems-like in any case and it seems that it can
be used to create potential connections.

Just some thoughts on potential directions.
